Rewrite Performance API guide pages (#25508)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/performance_api/performance_data/index.md

---
title: Performance data
slug: Web/API/Performance_API/Performance_data
page-type: guide
---

{{DefaultAPISidebar("Performance API")}}

The Performance API measures and exposes performance data that can be collected as performance metrics of your web application. It provides methods to observe aspects of application performance of browser features and Web APIs. It doesn't provide performance data analysis, visualizations, or stochastic evaluation. However, the Performance API is integrated well with developer tools in browsers and its data is often sent to analytics end points and libraries to record performance metrics which help you to evaluate the data as needed and find performance bottlenecks affecting your users.

This page provides an overview about what sorts of Performance API data exists, how it is collected, and how it can be accessed.

> ## Collecting data

Author: https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/25508/commits/9cfa7f96327ab368ccfd417625507b7a7fef19e6

> ## Collecting data

Author: This is what I had in mind but you put it much better, thanks Will!

- {{domxref("LargestContentfulPaint")}}
- {{domxref("LayoutShift")}}
- {{domxref("PerformanceElementTiming")}}
- {{domxref("PerformanceEventTiming")}}
- {{domxref("PerformanceLongTaskTiming")}}
- {{domxref("PerformanceMark")}}
- {{domxref("PerformanceMeasure")}}
- {{domxref("PerformancePaintTiming")}}
- {{domxref("PerformanceResourceTiming")}}
  - {{domxref("PerformanceNavigationTiming")}} inherits from `PerformanceResourceTiming`
- {{domxref("TaskAttributionTiming")}}

## Accessing data

You can access performance entries in one of two ways. The preferred way is to use the {{domxref("PerformanceObserver")}} interface, which is constructed with a callback function to be called when particular performance entries are recorded. You then call its {{domxref("PerformanceObserver.observe", "observe")}} method, passing in the types to observe:

```js
function logEventDuration(entries) {
  const events = entries.getEntriesByType("event");
  for (const event of events) {
    console.log(
      `Event handler took: ${
        event.processingEnd - event.processingStart
      } milliseconds`
    );
  }
}

const observer = new PerformanceObserver(logEventDuration);

> observer.observe({ type: "event", buffered: true });

Author: https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/25508/commits/7f74eea1cc4fe5613149cfca06bcdfa6d0bddafd

```

Alternatively, you can use the {{domxref("Performance.getEntries()")}}, {{domxref("Performance.getEntriesByName()")}}, and {{domxref("Performance.getEntriesByType()")}} methods to retrieve all performance entries for a page, or entries matching the given name or type.

```js
const events = performance.getEntriesByType("event");

for (const event of events) {
  console.log(
    `Event handler took: ${
      event.processingEnd - event.processingStart
    } milliseconds`
  );
}
```

The `PerformanceObserver` option is preferred because:

- The `getEntries*` methods will always return all relevant entries since the start of the timeline, so if you call it twice, you will see the same entries again and will need to filter out entries that you've seen before.
- Observer notifications are delivered asynchronously, so the browser can dispatch them during idle time to minimize their performance impact.

> - Not all entry types work with the `getEntries*` methods. For `"element"`, `"event"`, `"largest-contentful-paint"`, `"layout-shift"`, and `"longtask"` you have to use performance observers to access them.

Author: ```suggestion
- Not all entry types work with the `getEntries*` methods. For some you have to use performance observers to access them.
```

## Managing buffer sizes

There is a buffer limit for performance entries per document. It ensures that the browser doesn't consume indefinite memory when holding performance data. Especially when your website or application fetches a lot of resources (e.g. when using polling), you might need to look into the limits for the buffers:

| {{domxref("PerformanceEntry.entryType", "entryType")}} identifier | Interface                                  | Maximum buffer size         |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | --------------------------- |
| `"mark"`                                                          | {{domxref("PerformanceMark")}}             | Infinite                    |
| `"measure"`                                                       | {{domxref("PerformanceMeasure")}}          | Infinite                    |
| `"navigation"`                                                    | {{domxref("PerformanceNavigationTiming")}} | Infinite                    |

> | `"resource"`                                                      | {{domxref("PerformanceResourceTiming")}}   | 250 (adjustable, see below) |

Author: https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/25508/commits/a1e7a14f9a358a72d0161ba5294d9509a7844292

| `"longtask"`                                                      | {{domxref("PerformanceLongTaskTiming")}}   | 200                         |

> | `"paint"`                                                         | {{domxref("PerformancePaintTiming")}}      | 2                           |

Author: Yeah completely agree. --> https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/25508/commits/a1e7a14f9a358a72d0161ba5294d9509a7844292

> and also what a session is

Is there a place on MDN to link to for this?

> | `"paint"`                                                         | {{domxref("PerformancePaintTiming")}}      | 2                           |

Reviewer: Not that I know of. Thinking about it, "session" is almost certainly the wrong word. Is something like "per page load" more precise? Like if I reload the page or navigate to a new page, any performance entries being buffered are discarded and we start again, right?

> | `"paint"`                                                         | {{domxref("PerformancePaintTiming")}}      | 2                           |

Author: hm yes, but I'm not sure if page load is precise enough either.

The specs says that there is a "performance entry buffer map associated with each global object". So, "document" is also wrong, I'm afraid. https://w3c.github.io/performance-timeline/#performance-timeline
 
> There is a buffer limit for performance entries for each global object.

Would this be okay? (I guess it would be implicit that global objects are destroyed and recreated when doing a page reload)

> | `"paint"`                                                         | {{domxref("PerformancePaintTiming")}}      | 2                           |

Reviewer: Yes, that sounds good to me. Of course "page" also doesn't cover cases like workers.

> | `"paint"`                                                         | {{domxref("PerformancePaintTiming")}}      | 2                           |

Author: https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/25508/commits/8204657f1408fa27b0b42b5b62745ac791967048

  });
  if (droppedEntriesCount > 0) {
    console.warn(
      `${droppedEntriesCount} entries got dropped due to the buffer being full.`
    );
  }
}
const observer = new PerformanceObserver(perfObserver);
observer.observe({ type: "resource", buffered: true });
```

Another useful method is {{domxref("PerformanceObserver.takeRecords()")}} which returns the current list of performance entries stored in the performance observer while also emptying it out.

## JSON data

All performance entries provide a `toJSON()` {{Glossary("Serialization","serializer")}} which returns a {{jsxref("JSON")}} representation of the entry. This can be useful if you want to collect all of the available data and store it somewhere.

```js
const observer = new PerformanceObserver((list) => {
  list.getEntries().forEach((entry) => {
    console.log(entry.toJSON());
  });
});

observer.observe({ type: "event", buffered: true });
```

This would log a JSON object like so:

```json
{
  "name": "dragover",
  "entryType": "event",
  "startTime": 67090751.599999905,
  "duration": 128,
  "processingStart": 67090751.70000005,
  "processingEnd": 67090751.900000095,
  "cancelable": true
}
```

> To get a JSON string, you can use [`JSON.stringify(entry)`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify) with any `PerformanceEntry` object directly; it will call the entry's `toJSON()` method automatically.

Author: ```suggestion
To get a string representation of the entry, you can use [`JSON.stringify(entry)`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify) with any `PerformanceEntry` object directly; it will call the entry's `toJSON()` method automatically.
```
